output/posts/the-colorchecker-considered-mostly-harmless/index.rst, before:

.. title: The ColorChecker Considered Mostly Harmless
.. slug: the-colorchecker-considered-mostly-harmless
.. date: 2021-03-06 01:16:33 UTC
.. tags: camera, colour rendition chart, colour science
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text

This post will be about colour rendition charts, e.g.
*X-Rite ColorChecker Classic*, their usage and its dangers. It was a long time
coming and some discussions accelerated the authoring. If you are in a hurry
and do not want to read the entire post, the *TLDR* is as follows:

.. class:: alert alert-dismissible alert-warning

    *Unless you have all the relevant spectral measurements*, a colour
    rendition chart should not be used to perform colour-correction of camera
    imagery but only for white balancing and relative exposure adjustments.

There is granularity in everything, and we will present, in the conclusion,
some contexts when performing colour-correction is a good idea.

.. TEASER_END

Postulate: Light Does Not Matter
---------------------------------

There is an overabundance of `Youtube videos <https://www.youtube.com/results?search_query=perfect+colorchecker+davinci>`__ explaining how to
get perfect colours with the help of a colour rendition chart.

Yesterday, an
`Unreal Engine: Virtual Production Facebook <https://www.facebook.com/groups/virtualproduction/>`__
group member linked one of them, claiming that this was the safest way to
calibrate a camera for Virtual Production and also, quite oddly, that
*light does not matter*.

Is a Colour Rendition Chart the Safest Way to Calibrate a Camera?
-----------------------------------------------------------------

Simply put, this statement is not only incorrect but **the worst way possible
to calibrate a camera and should be avoided, unless you have all the relevant
spectral measurements.**.

Using a colour rendition chart for colour-correction might dramatically
increase error if the scene light source spectrum is different from the
illuminant used to compute the colour rendition chart's reference values. The
reference values are given (or calculated) for a particular illuminant. In the
context of the *Youtube*'s videos, the scene light source spectral power
distribution is never measured and thus always unknown. In this context, other
factors make using a colour rendition chart unsuitable for camera calibration:

-   Uncontrolled geometry of the colour rendition chart with the incident
    illumination and the camera.
-   Unknown sample reflectances and ageing as the colour of the samples vary
    with time.
-   Low samples count.
-   Camera noise and flare.
-   Etc...

.. class:: alert alert-dismissible alert-info

    Conceptually, such a colour-correction coerces the scene to appear as if
    it was lit by different lighting conditions.

More importantly, it damages the camera maker's characterisation work by
replacing it with a potentially harmful shot dependent calibration. Camera
makers, e.g. ARRI, RED or Sony, have intimate knowledge of their camera's
spectral sensitivities and lenses' transmission. They have access to
high-precision monochromators and spectro-radiometers.

Characterising a camera so that it produces faithful colours is a blend of
science and art. The result of the characterisation process is typically a
series of transformation matrices for various illuminants, commonly
*CIE Illuminant D55* and *ISO 7589 Studio Tungsten*. Often, the matrices have a
*3x3* shape because the regression between the training dataset for
the human observer and the camera test dataset uses Linear Least-Squares (LLS).
*3x3* matrices are exposure invariant and extremely performant. *nx3* matrices
are rare and the result of polynomial regression, e.g.
*Finlayson et al. (2015)* with the exposure invariant Root-Polynomial Expansion
(RPE) method.

The careful distribution of the training dataset samples shapes the
resulting transformation. The camera makers bias them to emphasise some
colours, such as skin tones or foliage. The samples are chosen with a wide
spectral variety to provide a sizeable spectral sensitivity. Standard colour
rendition charts samples do not exhibit such variety. Furthermore, the low
sample count is inappropriate for producing a complete gamut of natural
reflectances.

.. figure:: /images/Blog_AMPAS_Training_Dataset.png

    The AMPAS Training Dataset, a collection of natural reflectances
    cherry-picked to exhibit good spectral sensitivity and coverage, is used
    to produce `ACES <https://www.oscars.org/science-technology/sci-tech-projects/aces>`__
    Input Device Transforms (IDT).

.. figure:: /images/Blog_ColorChecker_Classic.png

    The *ColorChecker Classic* does not have enough samples to be suitable for
    camera characterisation.

Proof by Light
--------------

Let's imagine a scene lit with narrow-band lighting such as a Virtual
Production LED wall. To keep the process simple, we will discard the camera,
spectral sensitivities and white balancing concerns and only work in the
Standard Observer domain.

.. image:: /images/Blog_D65_and_LED_Wall.png

Given the spectral distributions of the *CIE Standard Illuminant D65* and an
exemplar LED wall, a rendered *ColorChecker Classic* would look as follows
under both illumination sources:

.. image:: /images/Blog_CC_D65_and_LED_Wall.png

The *ColorChecker Classic* illuminated by the LED wall and corrected with the
LLS and the RPE methods is as follows:

.. image:: /images/Blog_CC_LLS_and_RPE.png

It was the ideal scenario, using the same observer for the scene, and yet it
was not successful. In reality, with a camera, it is more challenging because
it is optimised for natural reflectances, sacrificing precision for the most
narrow-band stimuli. It is typical for narrow-band emitters to produce final
colours that are outside the spectral locus. The AMPAS had a
`Virtual Working Group <https://github.com/colour-science/aces-vwg-gamut-mapping-2020>`__
working on that specific problem for over a year.

Conclusion
----------

Please do not use a colour rendition chart naively. It is not a silver bullet
and it might create more problems than it solves.

Those issues are well understood in the VFX industry, and when receiving
plates, we almost exclusively use colour rendition charts to white balance and
perform relative exposure adjustments, i.e. plate neutralisation.

Another technical aspect that was not discussed is that an *nx3* matrix
introduces channel cross-correlation because it scales and rotates the colour
space. This cross-correlation produces unwanted side effects, e.g. out-of-gamut
colours, when VFX work has been layered on top of the plate and neutralisation
is reverted for final delivery.

We use colour rendition charts daily but responsibly, with knowledge of their
strengths and shortcomings.

Then, when is it a good idea to use one for colour-correction? When working
with a camera that does not have a proper input transformation, e.g. machine
vision camera or an old camera, and that you do not have access to hardware to
measure the camera sensitivities, then a colour rendition chart such as the
*X-Rite ColorChecker Digital SG* with known reflectances and a quality
illumination source with known spectral irradiance might save the day.
Similarly, it can be useful to help to narrow down differences between
some cameras under controlled lighting conditions.

Further reading is available in `Procedure P-2013-01: Recommended Procedures for the Creation and Use of Digital Camera System Input Device Transforms (IDTs) <http://j.mp/P-2013-001>`__.

Commit message:

Add target audience in "The ColorChecker Considered Mostly Harmless" blog post.

output/posts/the-colorchecker-considered-mostly-harmless/index.rst, after:

.. title: The ColorChecker Considered Mostly Harmless
.. slug: the-colorchecker-considered-mostly-harmless
.. date: 2021-03-06 01:16:33 UTC
.. tags: camera, colour rendition chart, colour science
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text

This post will be about colour rendition charts, e.g.
*X-Rite ColorChecker Classic*, their usage and its dangers. It was a long time
coming and some discussions accelerated the authoring. If you are in a hurry
and do not want to read the entire post, the *TLDR* is as follows:

.. class:: alert alert-dismissible alert-warning

    *Unless you have all the relevant spectral measurements*, a colour
    rendition chart should not be used to perform colour-correction of camera
    imagery but only for white balancing and relative exposure adjustments.

There is granularity in everything, and we will present, in the conclusion,
some contexts when performing colour-correction is a good idea.

We are also hoping that researchers having an understanding of colourimetry
will be able to read through the lines. This post is not for them but for the
photographers and colourists out there.

.. TEASER_END

Postulate: Light Does Not Matter
---------------------------------

There is an overabundance of `Youtube videos <https://www.youtube.com/results?search_query=perfect+colorchecker+davinci>`__ explaining how to
get perfect colours with the help of a colour rendition chart.

Yesterday, an
`Unreal Engine: Virtual Production Facebook <https://www.facebook.com/groups/virtualproduction/>`__
group member linked one of them, claiming that this was the safest way to
calibrate a camera for Virtual Production and also, quite oddly, that
*light does not matter*.

Is a Colour Rendition Chart the Safest Way to Calibrate a Camera?
-----------------------------------------------------------------

Simply put, this statement is not only incorrect but **the worst way possible
to calibrate a camera and should be avoided, unless you have all the relevant
spectral measurements.**.

Using a colour rendition chart for colour-correction might dramatically
increase error if the scene light source spectrum is different from the
illuminant used to compute the colour rendition chart's reference values. The
reference values are given (or calculated) for a particular illuminant. In the
context of the *Youtube*'s videos, the scene light source spectral power
distribution is never measured and thus always unknown. In this context, other
factors make using a colour rendition chart unsuitable for camera calibration:

-   Uncontrolled geometry of the colour rendition chart with the incident
    illumination and the camera.
-   Unknown sample reflectances and ageing as the colour of the samples vary
    with time.
-   Low samples count.
-   Camera noise and flare.
-   Etc...

.. class:: alert alert-dismissible alert-info

    Conceptually, such a colour-correction coerces the scene to appear as if
    it was lit by different lighting conditions.

More importantly, it damages the camera maker's characterisation work by
replacing it with a potentially harmful shot dependent calibration. Camera
makers, e.g. ARRI, RED or Sony, have intimate knowledge of their camera's
spectral sensitivities and lenses' transmission. They have access to
high-precision monochromators and spectro-radiometers.

Characterising a camera so that it produces faithful colours is a blend of
science and art. The result of the characterisation process is typically a
series of transformation matrices for various illuminants, commonly
*CIE Illuminant D55* and *ISO 7589 Studio Tungsten*. Often, the matrices have a
*3x3* shape because the regression between the training dataset for
the human observer and the camera test dataset uses Linear Least-Squares (LLS).
*3x3* matrices are exposure invariant and extremely performant. *nx3* matrices
are rare and the result of polynomial regression, e.g.
*Finlayson et al. (2015)* with the exposure invariant Root-Polynomial Expansion
(RPE) method.

The careful distribution of the training dataset samples shapes the
resulting transformation. The camera makers bias them to emphasise some
colours, such as skin tones or foliage. The samples are chosen with a wide
spectral variety to provide a sizeable spectral sensitivity. Standard colour
rendition charts samples do not exhibit such variety. Furthermore, the low
sample count is inappropriate for producing a complete gamut of natural
reflectances.

.. figure:: /images/Blog_AMPAS_Training_Dataset.png

    The AMPAS Training Dataset, a collection of natural reflectances
    cherry-picked to exhibit good spectral sensitivity and coverage, is used
    to produce `ACES <https://www.oscars.org/science-technology/sci-tech-projects/aces>`__
    Input Device Transforms (IDT).

.. figure:: /images/Blog_ColorChecker_Classic.png

    The *ColorChecker Classic* does not have enough samples to be suitable for
    camera characterisation.

Proof by Light
--------------

Let's imagine a scene lit with narrow-band lighting such as a Virtual
Production LED wall. To keep the process simple, we will discard the camera,
spectral sensitivities and white balancing concerns and only work in the
Standard Observer domain.

.. image:: /images/Blog_D65_and_LED_Wall.png

Given the spectral distributions of the *CIE Standard Illuminant D65* and an
exemplar LED wall, a rendered *ColorChecker Classic* would look as follows
under both illumination sources:

.. image:: /images/Blog_CC_D65_and_LED_Wall.png

The *ColorChecker Classic* illuminated by the LED wall and corrected with the
LLS and the RPE methods is as follows:

.. image:: /images/Blog_CC_LLS_and_RPE.png

It was the ideal scenario, using the same observer for the scene, and yet it
was not successful. In reality, with a camera, it is more challenging because
it is optimised for natural reflectances, sacrificing precision for the most
narrow-band stimuli. It is typical for narrow-band emitters to produce final
colours that are outside the spectral locus. The AMPAS had a
`Virtual Working Group <https://github.com/colour-science/aces-vwg-gamut-mapping-2020>`__
working on that specific problem for over a year.

Conclusion
----------

Please do not use a colour rendition chart naively. It is not a silver bullet
and it might create more problems than it solves.

Those issues are well understood in the VFX industry, and when receiving
plates, we almost exclusively use colour rendition charts to white balance and
perform relative exposure adjustments, i.e. plate neutralisation.

Another technical aspect that was not discussed is that an *nx3* matrix
introduces channel cross-correlation because it scales and rotates the colour
space. This cross-correlation produces unwanted side effects, e.g. out-of-gamut
colours, when VFX work has been layered on top of the plate and neutralisation
is reverted for final delivery.

We use colour rendition charts daily but responsibly, with knowledge of their
strengths and shortcomings.

Then, when is it a good idea to use one for colour-correction? When working
with a camera that does not have a proper input transformation, e.g. machine
vision camera or an old camera, and that you do not have access to hardware to
measure the camera sensitivities, then a colour rendition chart such as the
*X-Rite ColorChecker Digital SG* with known reflectances and a quality
illumination source with known spectral irradiance might save the day.
Similarly, it can be useful to help to narrow down differences between
some cameras under controlled lighting conditions.

Further reading is available in `Procedure P-2013-01: Recommended Procedures for the Creation and Use of Digital Camera System Input Device Transforms (IDTs) <http://j.mp/P-2013-001>`__.
