stories/utilities.rst, before:

.. title: Utilities
.. slug: utilities
.. date: 2015-11-25 08:18:32 UTC
.. tags:
.. category:
.. link:
.. description:
.. type: text

`Colour Playground <https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/colour-science/colour-playground/master?filepath=playground%2Fcolour.ipynb>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A repository leveraging `Binder <https://mybinder.org/>`_ to play with `Colour <https://github.com/colour-science/colour>`_.

`RGB Colourspace Models Transformations Matrices <../cgi-bin/rgb_colourspace_models_transformation_matrices.cgi>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Computes the colour transformation matrix between the given
*RGB Colourspace Models* using the given *Chromatic Adaptation Transform*.

`RGB Colourspace Models Chromatically Adapted Derivation <../cgi-bin/rgb_colourspace_models_chromatically_adapted_derivation.cgi>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Computes the *Chromatically Adapted* *Normalised Primary Matrix* of the given
*RGB Colourspace Model* to the given *Illuminant* using the given
*Chromatic Adaptation Transform*.

Commit message:

Add "Google Colab" Notebook link.

stories/utilities.rst, after:

.. title: Utilities
.. slug: utilities
.. date: 2015-11-25 08:18:32 UTC
.. tags:
.. category:
.. link:
.. description:
.. type: text

`Google Colab Notebook <https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1Im9J7or9qyClQCv5sPHmKdyiQbG4898K>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A `Google Colab <https://colab.research.google.com/>` Notebook to play with `Colour <https://github.com/colour-science/colour>`_.

`Colour Playground <https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/colour-science/colour-playground/master?filepath=playground%2Fcolour.ipynb>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A repository leveraging `Binder <https://mybinder.org/>`_ to play with `Colour <https://github.com/colour-science/colour>`_.

`RGB Colourspace Models Transformations Matrices <../cgi-bin/rgb_colourspace_models_transformation_matrices.cgi>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Computes the colour transformation matrix between the given
*RGB Colourspace Models* using the given *Chromatic Adaptation Transform*.

`RGB Colourspace Models Chromatically Adapted Derivation <../cgi-bin/rgb_colourspace_models_chromatically_adapted_derivation.cgi>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Computes the *Chromatically Adapted* *Normalised Primary Matrix* of the given
*RGB Colourspace Model* to the given *Illuminant* using the given
*Chromatic Adaptation Transform*.
